# library_management_system.github.io
The computerized library management system has proved a boon for the management of large educational institutions. The colleges and universities have immensely benefitted from it reducing cost and complexity involved in managing huge libraries, increasing productivity, performance and better accountability on the part of library staff. The use of library management system helps the librarian and other staff members to manage library easily along with saving time. This allows the librarian to catalogue books and to maintain records of issued and overdue books easily. It consists of the comprehensive options for entering the information related to books thus helping to maintain the complete library right from the transactions between student, staff and institute to issuing, returning and reissuing of books to maintaining membership information on one centralized server. This has eased and made the process of borrowing books error free for everyone. In fact every little task which was done manually by library staff has been fully automated so as to smoothen the working of library along with bringing transparency in its functioning and improving trust between the students and the management.

This project uses classes and file handling features of C++. In order to store all the user’s data, an external file (DAT file) is created by the system, so every time we get into the system we can operate with the existing accounts. Library Management System is developed using C++ Programming Language and different variables, strings have been used for the development of it. This project provides the simplest system for managing Library system.




